README.md, before:

# Build Your Own Git

This my implementation in Go for the
["Build Your Own Git" Challenge](https://codecrafters.io/challenges/git).

This is a small Git implementation that's capable of
initializing a repository, creating commits and cloning a public repository.
It's capable of handling the `.git` directory, Git objects (blobs,
commits, trees etc.), Git's transfer protocols and more.

**Note**: Head over to
[codecrafters.io](https://codecrafters.io) to try the challenge yourself.

# Testing locally

The `your_git.sh` script is expected to operate on the `.git` folder inside the
current working directory. If you're running this inside the root of this
repository, you might end up accidentally damaging your repository's `.git`
folder.

We suggest executing `your_git.sh` in a different folder when testing locally.
For example:

```sh
mkdir -p /tmp/testing && cd /tmp/testing
/path/to/your/repo/your_git.sh init
```

To make this easier to type out, you could add a
[shell alias](https://shapeshed.com/unix-alias/):

```sh
alias mygit=/path/to/your/repo/your_git.sh

mkdir -p /tmp/testing && cd /tmp/testing
mygit init
```

Commit message:

Clone a repository (Part 10: Completed basic cloning)

README.md, after:

# Build Your Own Git

This is my implementation in Go for the
["Build Your Own Git" Challenge](https://codecrafters.io/challenges/git).

This is a small Git implementation that's capable of
initializing a repository, creating commits and cloning a public repository.
It's capable of handling the `.git` directory, Git objects (blobs,
commits, trees etc.), Git's transfer protocols and more.

**Note**: Head over to
[codecrafters.io](https://codecrafters.io) to try the challenge yourself.

# Stages complete

Final implementation passes all stages of [git-tester v43](https://github.com/codecrafters-io/git-tester/tree/v43):

- [x] Repository Setup
- [x] Initialize the .git directory
- [x] Read a blob object
- [x] Create a blob object
- [x] Read a tree object
- [x] Write a tree object
- [x] Create a commit
- [x] Clone a repository

# Implemented subcommands

Only the "plumbing", low-level git commands for now (no `add`, `commit`, `status`, etc.). Just enough to complete the stages above and pass all tests.

- `init` - Does the bare minimum. Only works on current directory.
- `cat-file` - Can print size, type and content
- `hash-object` - Can calculate hash and write object to `.git/objects`
- `ls-tree` - Can list a single tree object (no recursion)
- `write-tree` - Write entire working tree recursively (no index/staging area yet)
- `commit-tree` - Write a commit object
- `clone` - Only working with remote, Smart HTTP (e.g. GitHub), repositories. Doesn't create an index yet, i.e. does just enough to pass the last stage above. Running `git checkout master` can create the index properly, though.

# To do

Continue implementing support for more subcommands as described in the [Git challenge](https://codingchallenges.fyi/challenges/challenge-git/) from [Coding Challenges](https://codingchallenges.fyi/).

# Testing locally

The `your_git.sh` script is expected to operate on the `.git` folder inside the
current working directory. If you're running this inside the root of this
repository, you might end up accidentally damaging your repository's `.git`
folder.

We suggest executing `your_git.sh` in a different folder when testing locally.
For example:

```sh
mkdir -p /tmp/testing && cd /tmp/testing
/path/to/your/repo/your_git.sh init
```

To make this easier to type out, you could add a
[shell alias](https://shapeshed.com/unix-alias/):

```sh
alias mygit=/path/to/your/repo/your_git.sh

mkdir -p /tmp/testing && cd /tmp/testing
mygit init
```
